Next we'll import the BreezeViz library,
define a function to calculate the degree
histogram, calculate the probability
distribution for the degree histogram, and
graph the results.
In this hands on exercise,
we will plot the degree histogram created
in the previous hands on exercise
using the BreezeViz library.
Starting again where we left off
in the previous hands-on exercise,
ensure your is started.
First we will import
the BreezeViz library.
Next, we will define a function to
calculate the degree histogram of Metro's
graph, so we can plot it with BreezeViz.
The definition of the degree histogram
function is nearly identical
to the code from the previous
exercise that helped us create.
The histogram data array.
Now we will calculate the probability
distribution of the vertex degrees over
the whole graph by normalizing the vertex
degree by the total number of vertices so
that the degree probabilities add up to 1.
The output of the first command is 28,
the number of countries in country.csv.
The output of the second command
is an array of numbered pairs.
The first number is the vertex degree,
and the second number is
the probability distribution.
Notice that the sum of all
the probability distributions equals one.
Now we will plot two graphs to
visualize the degree histogram.
The first graph will be a line
graph of the degree histogram and
the second will be
the degree histogram itself.
We will not go over in detail how to use
the BreezeViz library to create graphs.
The project is well documented and there
are many resources online if you want to
explore the BreezeViz library on your own.
For the first graph we will define
the X axis as the vertex degree and
the Y axis as the degree probability.
For the second graph we will
just pass the metro graph
degree attribute to
BreezeViz's histogram function
You should see two graphical
representations of the data.
The bottom one is the histogram.
The top shows the degrees
distribution plotting the histogram.
As we saw in the previous exercise's
array most countries have one metropolis.